<h3 id="L1874">What is PMFed ?</h3>

<p><strong>PMFed is a graphical tree-formular editor application for XML or JSON, written in Python.</strong></p>

<p>It can read, edit and save any model which has been generated by the utility <strong>pmfgen</strong> given in PMF.
This utility generates from a <strong>XSD</strong> or <strong>JSON Schema</strong> all necessary python classes defining a model.</p>

<p>Moreover, a developer or an attentive user can edit the generated classes for fine tuning.</p>

<p>The main features of <strong>PMFed</strong> are:</p>
<ul>
  <li><strong>model based</strong>: works for every (not <span style="color:#ff0000">**too**</span> complicated) XSD or
    JSON schema.</li>
  <li>model classes are <strong>generated</strong> from the schema.</li>
  <li><strong>intelligent tree</strong>: creation of new children based on the <strong>restrictions specified in the schema</strong>
  (choice, minOccurs/maxOccurs).</li>
  <li><strong>formulars</strong> are <span style="color:#ff0000">"real" formulars</span> for user friendly editing (not just strings to edit like in so many others cheaps apps)</li>
  <li><strong>formulars are automatically derived from the model</strong>: a formular contains all the widgets
    necessary to edit all the attributes of an element, and each widget in a formular is dedicated to the type of the
    underlying attribute type. (SpinBox for integers types, ComboBox for enums etc.) and follow the <strong>possible
    restrictions</strong> on the simple types specified in the schema (pattern, min, max, etc...).</li>
  <li><strong>formulars</strong> can also be defined with <strong>Qt ui files</strong>.</li>
  <li><strong>XSD/JSON schema validation on the "fly" during editing</strong> (and jump to location on validation error
    msg click).</li>
  <li><strong>support for "comments" in XML (see in Appendix)</strong>.</li>
  <li><strong>support for "references" in XML models (unidirectional or bi-directional)</strong> through special
    notations in the XSD schema (see in Appendix).</li>
  <li><strong>support for "references" in JSON models (unidirectional or bi-directional)</strong> through special
    notations in the JSON schema (see in Appendix).</li>
  <li><strong>fully configurable</strong> through customizable generated python classes (see examples later).</li>
  <li><strong><span style="color:#ff0000">support for file splitting</span></strong> (see in Appendix).</li>
</ul>

<p>More specifically, for users, the <strong>PMFed</strong> (<strong>PySide</strong> based) application allows to:</p>
<ul>
  <li>open/read/save XML/JSON files compliant with the XSD/JSON schema (python module given in argument to the
    application).</li>
  <li>edit the tree (add/delete children, cut/copy/paste).</li>
  <li>edit the items properties through formulars/widgets.</li>
  <li>full undo-redo.</li>
  <li>rich set of controls in formular (for every XSD simple type or JSON simple type).</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>How does it work?</strong></p>

<p>Given a schema (XSD or JSON), a bunch of classes corresponding to the complex types defined in the schema is created
in a python module (with the command line tool <strong>pmfgen.py</strong> furnished with the application).</p>

<p>Moreover, for each class generated in the module, a super class is also created (in its own python module), allowing
complete control over the generated classes. Finally, a framework is furnished, which is completely user model
agnostic. The framework implements a super class where the basic functionalities of the generated classes are
implemented. The <strong>PMFed</strong> application simply relies on this framework (and the generated classes), and
thus allows the tree-formular editor to work out of the box. The framework furnishes also a treeview, a formular view
and a logger view (with document validation) for the <strong>PMFed</strong> application.</p>

<p>Because the user will certainly want it, great care has be done so that the user can <strong>customize</strong> the
<strong>tree-formular application</strong> to fit its own needs:</p>
<ul>
  <li>formulars are easily custumizable</li>
  <li>tree view is easily customizable</li>
</ul>

<h3>Note</h3>
<p>There are more and more free (and sometimes nice) JSON editors on the internet, but these are limited per nature
as the schema is read on the fly and only basic editing is possible.</p>
<p>The concept here is to provide a framework to fully control the model and write a real world, fully customizable application.</p>
  
<h3>Interested?</h3>
<p>The full tutorial is given in this repo. Please take contact for pricing if interest is present.</p>
